$Id: README,v 1.28 2013/04/21 19:32:42 johns Exp $

README for Tachyon(tm) Parallel/Multiprocessor Ray Tracing Software
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Tachyon - 1967, from Greek "tachys", meaning "swift" or "speedy",
          A hypothetical particle held to travel only faster than light.

Author: John E. Stone - john.stone@gmail.com (preferred email address) 
                        johns@ks.uiuc.edu    (work email address)

What is Tachyon?
----------------
  Tachyon was originally written as part of my M.S. degree in Computer Science, 
  but I have made an ongoing effort to maintain and improve at as a
  hobby, and for the benefit of the molecular visualization community where
  Tachyon gets significant use as the built-in photorealistic renderer in 
  the molecular visualization program VMD.

  In the Tachyon distribution you will find:  

  - Tachyon ray tracing library:
    A portable, high performance parallel ray tracing system supporting 
    MPI and multithreaded implementations.  Tachyon is built as a 
    C/C++ callable library, which can be used with the included demo 
    programs or within your own application.  The distribution 
    also includes a simple scene file parser front-end which reads 
    a few other input file formats such as MGF, NFF, and an old
    version of AC3D.

  - Tachyon standalone ray tracer:
    Tachyon implements all of the basic geometric primitives such as
    triangles, planes, spheres, cylinders, etc.  Recent versions of
    Tachyon support ambient occlusion lighting, material properties
    for shading with angle-modulated transparency, and many other
    features of particular use in molecular visualization. 
    The original goal in developing Tachyon was to make it fast 
    and to parallelize well both for shared memory, distributed
    memory parallel, and hybrid shared/distributed memory parallel
    computers.  These areas of emphasis are what set Tachyon apart 
    from more full-featured programs like POV-Ray, Rayshade, and 
    many others.  Tachyon is an excellent alternative to slower 
    programs for computationally demanding animation and 
    scientific visualization tasks.  As time goes on, Tachyon will 
    incorporate more features, but will continue its emphasis on 
    minimalism, rendering performance, and simplicity.

  - Example scenese:
    Tachyon comes with example scenes for use with the 
    standalone ray tracer executable.  Note that some of
    the example scenes require texture maps and/or volume data sets
    which are distributed seperately due to their large size.

How do I compile and run Tachyon?
---------------------------------
  The build process is quite simple.  On Unix, just "cd" into the 
  unix directory and type "make".  You wil see a list of common
  configurations that can be built.  This will work fine for almost 
  all common Unix systems.  The Make-arch file contains a large
  number of other build configurations that are not listed 
  in the main list, if you don't see what you're looking for.
  To customize the Tachyon build to enable optional features,
  to force the use of single-precision arithmetic, or other 
  site-specific customizations, the Make-config file should be
  edited as-needed.
  To compile Tachyon for unusual hardware or software environments,
  the Make-arch file may also need to be edited to add a new
  set of make rules for the new target platform.
  These steps are discussed in more detail in the README file 
  included in the unix directory. 

  On Windows, the process is as simple as loading up the project files
  in the msvc subdirectory and building them.

  All of the documentation, research papers, and seperately distributed
  components related to this project can be retrieved from:
    http://www.photonlimited.com/~johns/tachyon/
    http://jedi.ks.uiuc.edu/~johns/tachyon/
 
  In addition to the existing documentation, feel free to send me email
  with questions on how things work, or for help getting things compiled
  on platforms that aren't built into the makefiles that come with the
  distribution.

How can I contribute to further development?
--------------------------------------------
  I continue to work on this software in my free time.  I depend
  on other individuals or institutions to provide me access to 
  the various parallel computers and compilers that Tachyon supports 
  in order to continue maintaining it on those platforms.  If you
  would like to see Tachyon ported to a new parallel platform,
  send me a note and I'll be happy to take a look at it.
  I would be happy to collaborate with others on extending 
  Tachyon for a wider variety of uses. 

Copyrights etc.
---------------
  All work included in this distribution is copyrighted by John E. Stone,
  except where noted within specific source files.  You may use this code
  for any purpose you wish, as long as credit is given to its source(s). 

Last updated April 21, 2013

   John E. Stone
   john.stone@gmail.com
   johns@ks.uiuc.edu

